<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Epilogue I</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="backmatter z3998:fiction z3998:drama">
		<section id="epilogue-1" epub:type="epilogue z3998:scene">
			<header>
				<h2>
					<span epub:type="label">Epilogue</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</span>
				</h2>
				<p>By <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Goldsmith</p>
			</header>
			<p>Spoken by <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Buckley in the character of <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Miss Hardcastle</b></p>
			<table>
				<tbody>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<p>
								<span>Well, having stooped to conquer with success,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And gained a husband without aid from dress,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Still, as a barmaid, I could wish it too,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>As I have conquered him to conquer you:</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And let me say, for all your resolution.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>That pretty barmaids have done execution.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Our life is all a play, composed to please;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>“We have our exits and our entrances.”</span>
								<br/>
								<span>The first act shows the simple country maid,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Harmless and young, of everything afraid;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Blushes when hired, and with unmeaning action,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>“I hopes as how to give you satisfaction.”</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Her second act displays a livelier scene⁠—</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Th’ unblushing barmaid of a country inn,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Who whisks about the house, at market caters.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Talks loud, coquettes the guests, and scolds the waiters.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Next the scene shifts to town, and there she soars,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>The chophouse toast of ogling connoisseurs.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>On Squires and Cits she there displays her arts,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And on the gridiron broils her lovers’ hearts;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And, as she smiles, her triumphs to complete,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>E’en common councilmen forget to eat.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>The fourth act shows her wedded to the Squire,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And Madam now begins to hold it higher;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Pretends to taste, at Operas cries <i xml:lang="it">caro</i>!</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And quits her Nancy Dawson for <i xml:lang="it">Che Faro</i>:</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Dotes upon dancing, and in all her pride.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Swims round the room, the Heinel of Cheapside;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Ogles and leers, with artificial skill,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Till, having lost in age the power to kill.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>She sits all night at cards, and ogles at spadille.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Such, through our lives, th’ eventful history!</span>
								<br/>
								<span>The fifth and last act still remains for me:</span>
								<br/>
								<span>The barmaid now for your protection prays,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Turns female barrister, and pleads for Bayes.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
