<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Prologue</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="frontmatter z3998:fiction z3998:drama">
		<section id="prologue" epub:type="prologue z3998:scene">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Prologue</h2>
				<p>David Garrick, <abbr class="eoc">Esq.</abbr></p>
			</header>
			<table>
				<tbody>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Woodward</b>, dressed in black, and holding a handkerchief to his eyes.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<p>
								<span>Excuse me, sirs, I pray⁠—I can’t yet speak⁠—</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Excuse me, sirs, I pray⁠—I can’t yet speak⁠—</span>
								<br/>
								<span>I’m crying now⁠—and have been all the week.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>“ ’Tis not alone this mourning suit,” good masters:</span>
								<br/>
								<span>“I’ve that within”⁠—for which there are no plasters!</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Pray, would you know the reason why I’m crying?</span>
								<br/>
								<span>The Comic Muse, long sick, is now a-dying!</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And if she goes, my tears will never stop;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>For as a player, I can’t squeeze out one drop:</span>
								<br/>
								<span>I am undone, that’s all⁠—shall lose my bread⁠—</span>
								<br/>
								<span>I’d rather, but that’s nothing⁠—lose my head.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>When the sweet maid is laid upon the bier,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Shuter and I shall be chief mourners here.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>To her a mawkish drab of spurious breed,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Who deals in sentimentals, will succeed!</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Poor Ned and I are dead to all intents;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>We can as soon speak Greek as sentiments!</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Both nervous grown, to keep our spirits up.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>We now and then take down a hearty cup.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>What shall we do? If Comedy forsake us,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>They’ll turn us out, and no one else will take us.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>But why can’t I be moral?⁠—Let me try⁠—</span>
								<br/>
								<span>My heart thus pressing⁠—fixed my face and eye⁠—</span>
								<br/>
								<span>With a sententious look, that nothing means,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>(Faces are blocks in sentimental scenes)</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Thus I begin: “All is not gold that glitters,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>“Pleasure seems sweet, but proves a glass of bitters.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>“When Ignorance enters, Folly is at hand:</span>
								<br/>
								<span>“Learning is better far than house and land.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>“Let not your virtue trip; who trips may stumble,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>“And virtue is not virtue, if she tumble.”</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<p>
								<span>I give it up⁠—morals won’t do for me;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>To make you laugh, I must play tragedy.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>One hope remains⁠—hearing the maid was ill,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>A Doctor comes this night to show his skill.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>To cheer her heart, and give your muscles motion,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>He, in Five Draughts prepar’d, presents a potion:</span>
								<br/>
								<span>A kind of magic charm⁠—for be assur’d,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>If you will swallow it, the maid is cur’d:</span>
								<br/>
								<span>But desperate the Doctor, and her case is,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>If you reject the dose, and make wry faces!</span>
								<br/>
								<span>This truth he boasts, will boast it while he lives,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>No poisonous drugs are mixed in what he gives.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Should he succeed, you’ll give him his degree;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>If not, within he will receive no fee!</span>
								<br/>
								<span>The College you, must his pretensions back,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Pronounce him Regular, or dub him Quack.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
